detective recapped here today i'm going
to explain a thriller film called
zodiac spoilers ahead watch out and take
care
the year is 1969 in vallejo california
after a half-hearted drive to the diner
darlene farron and michael major decide
to spend their fourth of july near a
forest
it was gearing to be an awkwardly
romantic evening for the two until a
group of teenagers started throwing
firecrackers at their car
michael curses the group as they drive
off and this endears darling to him even
more
suddenly a new car pulls over from a
distance making them grow weary
the car drives away and they start to
calm down but eventually
the vehicle circles back behind them the
pair's nervousness only grew when a man
stepped out to point a flashlight at
them
thinking it would be a robbery michael
tells darlene to take her wallet out
before they could react the man pulls
out a gun and begins firing at them
darlene is shot repeatedly fatally
injuring her
the murderer calls the police and
reports the location of his victims
before ending the call by announcing
that he killed the kids from last year
with that he bid the police goodbye four
weeks later
the news publisher san francisco
chronicle receives a direct letter from
the self-proclaimed killer
in the letter he claims that he killed
the two teenagers along with another
girl last fourth of july
to prove that he isn't bluffing he wrote
facts that only the killer and the
police would know
the letter also contained a cipher that
split into three parts
with the other two parts sent to vallejo
times and sf examiner
the killer demands these companies to
print the coded messages containing his
identity to the front page of their
papers
he threatens to kill a dozen people
should they ignore him the newspaper
editors hold a meeting to discuss
whether they'll comply with the killer's
request or not
one of the members of the discussion is
robert greysmith the paper's cartoonist
he is handed the coded message then
writes down the symbols on a piece of
paper
the editorial team wants to confirm with
paul avery if the events
that the killer reported were actually
true paul is their local writer who
covers crimes in vallejo so he's able to
call the vallejo police department and
think to them he's able to confirm the
shootings
the editors decide to run with the
killer's demands but they opted to print
the code on the fourth page instead
while most of the team leaves to go to a
bar robert decides to come home with his
young son
once home he pins the killer's cipher on
his wall
all three parts of the cipher are now in
circulation and several people are
working to crack the code
including skaggs island naval
intelligence center the fbi
and the cia among those interested in
the code are history teacher donald
harden and his wife
betty back in the san francisco
chronicle paul acquaints himself with
robert he shows him the cipher which was
successfully decoded by donald and betty
robert reads out the message and paul
mentions that there are still some
leftover letters scrambled at the bottom
while robert ponders over what they
could possibly mean paul leaves him to
think
the editorial calls paul and they inform
him that the killer sent in another
letter about his killings
what's more is that they finally have a
name to call the killer by
he introduced himself as zodiac back at
the san francisco chronicle
robert discovers another clue related to
the zodiac
the people of the city are growing
increasingly unsettled and on one such
night
a cab driver is killed police officers
bill and david arrive at the scene of
the crime and they try to pin down what
could have happened
after further analysis david decides to
speak with some children who saw the
zodiac from a window
three days later inspector david and
bill make their way to the san francisco
chronicle to speak with the editors
during that time the company receives
their next letter from the zodiac along
with a worrying piece of item
the bloodstained shirt worn by the cab
driver in the letter
the zodiac claims the murder of the
driver along with the vallejo and napa
killings
but most unnerving of all is the
killer's written threat to murder
innocent school children this prompts
the editors to publish the killer story
the following day robert couldn't help
but worry deeply for his preschooler son
he stops his son from boarding his
school bus at the last minute and
decides to drive him to school instead
bill and david have resolved to go fully
public with a zodiac threat against the
children so they can effectively warn
people of the possible danger
several hundred reports come flying in
and with the press breathing down their
necks
the police are struggling to narrow down
the truth
bill tries to coordinate with the
departments in vallejo and napa
he discovers that the killer wore boots
used solely by military personnel
just then two police officers enter the
room and they report to bill and david
that they saw the killer on the night
when the cab driver was shot
the two of them confirmed what the man
looked like but they didn't think to
stop him because according to their
orders
the suspect was an african-american
adult male the profile of the suspect is
later corrected to be caucasian
in the middle of the night the police
receive a call from someone claiming to
be the killer
the killer demands to be featured on a
talk show and the police readily
complies to trace the call
the show begins and the zodiac makes his
next call telling them to meet him on
the top of fairmont hotel
inspector david sends a team to the
location immediately but before they can
trace the call
the zodiac hangs up the host assures him
and promises that no one's tracing their
conversation
this seems to convince the zodiac and he
rings them up again
he talks about his never-ending
headaches about how he only ever gets
them to stop when he kills people
the host pleads with the killer to meet
him and the zodiac demands they meet in
front of a thrift store in daly city
both the host and the police arrive at
the zodiac specified location
back in the television studio however
the police confirmed with one of the
victims that the caller was a fraud
it wasn't the zodiac as he had a
different voice the call tracing came in
and they find out that the call was made
from a mental institution
back at the chronicle they receive
another letter from the killer
it contains both a cipher and a damning
recipe for a bomb
to discuss their new coded message paul
and robert go out together for some
drinks
the killer sends a letter to the tv host
bill and david pay him a visit to
question him but they conclude that the
letter may not be noteworthy
meanwhile a woman with her baby is
driving along a highway near modesto
she stopped by a loud honking coming
from the car behind her
the man informs her that her right tire
is loose and even offers to help
she accepts then tries to run her car
when he was finished
only to have the will op off seeing her
predicament
the man drives back and offers to take
her to the nearest gas station
as she settles in the passenger seat the
man comments that he didn't know she
had a baby with her in the middle of the
drive the woman tries to soothe her
crying child and that's when the man
calmly tells her that he'll throw the
baby out of the window before killing
her
a while later the same woman is seen in
the middle of the road
having jumped out of the car's window
with her baby some time has passed and
several letters claiming to be from the
zodiac killer are coming in
paul tells robert that the zodiac is
claiming crimes that aren't his own and
he starts to theorize that he just wants
attention from the press
at present they can only confirm five of
the 13 murders being attributed to him
paul then shows robert the watch brand
that the zodiac took his name and logo
from
one morning paul receives a nice holiday
card from the zodiac and this time
it's directly addressed to him dave
suggests that he must have aggravated
the zodiac
at some point by calling him a latent
homosexual in one of his articles about
the killer
later on many people are beginning to
wear i am not paul avery pins to avert
the threat of the zodiac killer
with his life under direct threat paul
buys himself a gun
an anonymous tip then comes in asking
for paul to come to riverside la
that same evening robert goes on a date
with a woman named melanie
she asks about his job prompting robert
to explain the current situation with
paul and the zodiac killer
this gets melanie thinking and she
suspects that since it was an anonymous
tip
the call could be from the zodiac killer
himself melody helps robert realize that
this may turn into an ambush so he goes
to a phone booth to call paul's wife
a call later comes in from paul himself
and he has some interesting findings
he reports that the riverside experts
discovered that the single unsolved
homicide case in riverside's history was
not only done by the zodiac killer
himself
but it was also his first murder
according to paul
the handwriting matches the other
letters they've been receiving
paul hands the information directly to
the press instead of running it through
with the police
this angers dave a few days pass and
dave along with the other members of the
police
force have made their way to riverside
to discuss the evidence and details they
had on the alleged first zodiac case
with the public unrest that paul had
caused the police are being bombarded
with people claiming to either be the
zodiac or a witness
one of the many probable suspects is
arthur lee allen who his former
colleagues reported to the police
dave and bill follow the lead to trackly
down they first arrived at his place of
work to speak with him and during his
impromptu questioning
the pair noticed some suspicious things
about the man he had many telling signs
from the zodiac branded watch and his
knowledge of the book the most dangerous
game
this was referenced in one of the
killer's many letters
lee shaping up to be an attractive
suspect so the police decide to
investigate further ville and dave tried
to procure a search warrant for lee's
house but their request was disapproved
due to insufficient evidence
they try to build their evidence against
him with the help of a handwriting
analyst
a psychologist for an expert witness and
lee's former co-worker chaney
as soon as they get their search warrant
the police head straight for lee's
trailer but by the time they got there
he wasn't home after a search of the
house the police finally driving back
towards his trailer
but back in the police station forensics
couldn't find a match on lee or the
zodiac
left with no other substantial suspect
this leaves the team incredibly
frustrated
four years have passed and by this point
most people have moved on from the
zodiac case
bill left the force and paul quit the
san francisco chronicle
robert however is still fixated with it
he visits paul to encourage him to write
a book about the zodiac killer
after all no one knows the story as much
as he does
paul dismisses his idea finding it to be
meaningless and when robert insists that
the case is still important
paul gets mad at him he doesn't need
robert to invigorate his sense of
purpose and when robert refuses to let
it go
he berates him though robert didn't find
any success with paul
he doesn't give up he pays dave a visit
in the police station to try and
convince him to start the search again
robert shows him a lead that he got from
the zodiac's very first cipher
this impresses dave so he sends robert
to the police officer in napa to ken
narlow and then to jack mullinax in
jack gives robert access to his case
files along with all the evidences on
the condition that he doesn't write
anything down
robert continues tirelessly with his
search until a man named wallace penny
calls him on the phone
he claims that the zodiac killer goes by
the name of rick marshall
then hangs up robert gets the help of
several people from the police force and
continues to gather information to bring
him closer to solving the impossible
case
thanks to wallace robert gets his hands
on rick marshall's handwriting sample
he sends the sample in for analysis and
with the zodiac case's original
handwriting analyst
robert concludes that the handwriting is
the closest match they've ever had
a new zodiac letter arrives at the san
francisco chronicle which mentions david
specifically
because of some rumors circulated by a
news writer david was accused of writing
the zodiac letter himself as a publicity
stunt
and lost his job at the force david
gives up the hunt for zodiac but robert
continues to be consumed by the hunt
much to the disappointment of his wife
robert meets up with bob vaughn the man
wallace penny says
is a friend of the zodiacs bob leads
robert to his house and after a brief
conversation
robert finds out that it wasn't rick's
handwriting on the sample but bob's
bob leads robert to the basement and the
realization start sinking in
when robert finds out that bob
participated in the zodiac killings
he tries to escape but the door was
locked strangely
bob allows robert to leave and unlocks
the door robert later speaks with linda
the sister of one of the zodiacs victims
linda tells him about a painting party
that her sister threw
several people attended including a
strange man in a suit who sat in a chair
the entire night and didn't say a word
her sister was scared of him in a few
weeks after that she was killed
much to robert's surprise she says that
the man's name was lee
robert knocks on david's door ready to
tell him about his discoveries
he was hesitant to listen to robert at
first but after hearing lee's name
david is all ears the two of them start
working on the case together and robert
wants to go forward and make this a
matter of official police investigation
david shoots the idea down telling him
that they don't have the evidence to
back their speculations up
many years later robert finishes his
book on the zodiac killer
the police set a meeting with michael
meiju who survived the zodiac killer's
attack
the police officer shows him several
photos of potential suspects and meiju
identifies lee
confirming that he was the one who shot
him following mike major's
identification of arthur lee allen
authorities scheduled a meeting to
discuss charging him with the murders
lee suffered a fatal heart attack before
this meeting could take place
in 2002 a partial dna profile that did
not match alan
was developed from a 33-year-old zodiac
envelope
investigators in san francisco and
vallejo refused to rule out alan as a
suspect on the basis of this test
in 2004 the san francisco police
department deactivated their zodiac
investigation
today the case remains open in napa
county solano county
and in the city of vallejo where arthur
lee allen is still the prime and only
suspect
inspector david toski retired from the
san francisco police department in 1989.
his name was cleared and he was free
from the false charges against him
paul avery passed away on december 10
2000 due to pulmonary emphysema
he was 66 his ashes were scattered by
his family in san francisco bay
robert greysmith lives in san francisco
and enjoys a healthy relationship with
his children
he claims he has not received a single
anonymous call since alan's death
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching